=== PDF PAGE 1 ===
 
1 
 
 
mFRR-Platform Accession roadmap  
  
Version  Description  Date  
V14 13th Update of Accession Roadmap  01/10/2025 
  
According to Implementation Framework for a European platform for the exchange of balancing energy from 
frequency restoration reserves with manual activation (mFRRIF), Article 5, Paragraph 4 (b) member TSOs 
shall develop accession roadmap within three months after approval of mFRRIF (date of approval 24/1/2020)   
  
The accession of member TSOs to mFRR -Platform (MARI) is planned in accordance with the following 
accession roadmap. MARI member TSOs and ENTSO -E share this accession roadmap for informative 
purposes only and does not, in any case, represent a firm, binding or definitive position of MARI on the content. 
The content is subject to change as the implementation progresses and new information becomes available. 
In particular, feasibility of the present accession roadmap may depend on final detailed accession plan ning 
and possible operational and/or technical constraints that would result in the maximum number of parallel 
accessions. 
 
This accession roadmap will be updated at least twice a year to give stakeholders current information on the 
development.  
Explanatory notes  
Member TSOs below include an explanation for all aspects in the accession roadmap according to the 
mFRRIF:  
5.4.(b)(i) the adaptation and implementation of terms and conditions for BSPs by each member TSO  
- Member TSOs deemed relevant to split the development of T&C and their entry into force to provide 
clarity to stakeholders. Entry into force of T&C in some TSOs does not have to be adherent to the 
connection and Go-live of such TSOs in mFRR-Platform. In practice, the updated T&C may be applied 
in advance.  
5.4.(b)(ii) the development of the functions of the mFRR-Platform  
- Member TSOs provide further detail by splitting this point into the Activation Optimization Function (AOF) 
development and the TSO-TSO Settlement Function development.  
5.4.(b)(iii) the interoperability tests between each TSO and the mFRR-Platform  
- The interoperability tests between each TSO and the mFRR-Platform (end-to-end integration tests) start 
as soon as part of the platform and TSOs are ready and finish by the Go-Live.  
5.4.(b)(iv) the operational tests  
- The operational tests provide a period for the TSOs to get acquainted with the new operational paradigm.  
5.4.(b)(v) the connection of each TSO to the mFRR-Platform  
- The connection of a TSO to the mFRR -Platform indicates the effective TSO business Go -Live after 
successful performance of the interoperability and operational test.  
5.4.(b)(vi) making the mFRR-Platform operational  
- Member TSOs see as one part of this aspect testing of the mFRR -Platform functions and another part 
of the act of making the mFRR-Platform Go-live itself. That is why it was split in the accession roadmap 
to give stakeholders better overview. The legal deadline for the Go-Live is set to 24/7/2022.  
5.4.(b)(vii) the connection of all TSOs that have been granted a derogation by their respective 
regulatory authorities in accordance with Article 62 of EB Regulation  
- TSOs have the possibility to request a derogation to their respective authorities – in the roadmap TSOs 
that are considering such option or already did request are marked in the accession roadmap.  
 
  
 
 

=== PDF PAGE 2 ===
 
 
 
1 IPTO - Due to implementation difficulties, it is expected that IPTO will be able to connect to the mFRR-platform within 
2026. The Greek NRA is already informed.  
2 The Nordic TSOs have focused on establishing the Nordic mFRR platform (go-live 4 March 2025) before connecting 
to the European platforms, which, along with challenges in IT development, mean that the planned accession to MARI is 
delayed. An updated Nordic roadmap will be published on https://nordicbalancingmodel.net/roadmap-and-projects/ 
3 MAVIR - In order to meet the legal requirements, MAVIR not only has to procure and implement major IT system and 
business process upgrades but also has to introduce completely new ones as well - including but not limited to its market 
operation and planning system and settlement system – which takes more time than originally estimated. Additionally 
MAVIR needs to provide sufficient time for local BSPs to prepare and implement the necessary changes on their side. 
The Hungarian NRA requests an updated status from MAVIR every half year.  
4 PSE - Sequential approach to implementation of balancing platforms (PICASSO followed by MARI) adopted in order to 
mitigate risks and limitations of available resources. Necessity to incorporate EBGL requirements into internal market 
rules. PSE preliminary expect to connect to the platform in September 2026.  
5 RTE was granted a derogation by the French NRA until 24/07/24. However, at least one additional year will be required 
for RTE to connect to the MARI platform in order to ensure the operational security of the French electrical system. RTE 
has been sharing its ATC since 18/07/24. 
6 TenneT NL aims for go-live with the MARI platform by December 2025 and has received a derogation until 24-07-
2024. The reason for delay relates to several IT bottlenecks.  
7 Swissgrid the technical readiness of Swissgrid has been acknowledged. The participation of Switzerland in the mFRR-
Platform is regulated based on article 1.6 and 1.7 of the EB Regulation and currently the subject of litigation by Swissgrid 
at the Court of Justice of the European Union.  
8 Transelectrica derogation granted 24.07.2024. The local IT systems have been changed on 1st July 2024. Currently 
work is still being done to ensure stability of BM system and we are still implementing many updates due to the new 
internal regulations for the local BM. The connection of Transelectrica will be completed when the technical conditions of 
the local systems and the conditions for paticipation to the European mFRR market (connected mode) will be fulfilled. 
9 ELES has postponed the accession to Q2 2026 due to technical reasons.  
10 HOPS Accession has been postponed due to technical conditions (delay in local IT project implementation) and 
communicated with local NRA. 
 
