=== PDF PAGE 1 ===
       
         
       
aFRR-Platform Accession roadmap 
Version Description Date 
V14 13th update 1/10/2025 
 
According to Implementation Framework for a European platform for the exchange of balancing energy 
from frequency restoration reserves with automatic activation (aFRRIF), Article 5, Paragraph 4 (b) 
member TSOs shall develop accession roadmap within three months after approval of aFRRIF (date of 
approval 24/1/2020). 
 
The accession of member TSOs to aFRR-Platform (PICASSO) is planned in accordance with the 
following accession roadmap. PICASSO member TSOs and ENTSO-E Share this accession roadmap 
for informative purposes only and it does not, in any case, represent a firm, binding or definitive position 
of PICASSO on the content. The content is subject to change as the implementation progresses and 
new information becomes available. In particular, the feasibility of the present accession roadmap may 
depend on final detailed accession planning and possible operational and/or technical constraints that 
would result in the number of parallel accessions. 
 
This accession roadmap will be updated at least twice a year to give stakeholders current information 
on the development. 
 
Explanatory notes 
Member TSOs below include an explanation for all aspects in the accession roadmap according to the 
aFRRIF: 
5.4.(b)(i) the adaptation and implementation of terms and conditions for BSPs by each member 
TSO 
- Member TSOs deemed relevant to split the development of T&C and their entry into force to 
provide clarity to stakeholders. Entry into force of T&C in some TSOs does not have to be 
adherent to the connection and Go-live of such TSOs in aFRR-Platform. In practice, the updated 
T&C may be applied in advance. 
 
5.4.(b)(ii) the development of the functions of the aFRR-Platform 
- Member TSOs provide further detail by splitting this point into the Activation Optimization 
Function (AOF) development and the TSO-TSO Settlement Function development. 
 
5.4.(b)(iii) the interoperability tests between each TSO and the aFRR-Platform 
- The interoperability tests between each TSO and the aFRR-Platform (end-to-end integration 
tests) start as soon as part of the platform, and TSOs are ready and finish by the Go-Live. 
5.4.(b)(iv) the operational tests 
- The operational tests provide a period for the TSOs to get acquainted with the new operational 
paradigm. 
 
5.4.(b)(v) the connection of each TSO to the aFRR-Platform 
- The connection of a TSO to the aFRR-Platform indicates the effective TSO business Go-Live 
after the successful performance of the interoperability and operational test. 
5.4.(b)(vi) making the aFRR-Platform operational 
- Member TSOs see as one part of this aspect testing of the aFRR-Platform functions and another 
part of the act of making the aFRR-Platform Go-live itself. That is why it was split in the 
accession roadmap to give stakeholders a better overview. The legal deadline for the Go-Live 
is set to 24/7/2022. 
 
5.4.(b)(vii) the connection of all TSOs that have been granted a derogation by their respective 
regulatory authorities in accordance with Article 62 of EB Regulation 
- TSOs have the possibility to request a derogation to their respective authorities – in the roadmap 
TSOs that are considering such option or already did request are marked in the accession 
roadmap

=== PDF PAGE 2 ===
        
           
    
 
  
1 TERNA - TERNA updated the T&Cs during May-June 2025, following a public consultation. The new T&Cs were 
approved by the NRA on July 29th, 2025, and will come into force from the date of reconnection. 
2 ELES - ELES has postponed the accession to Q2 2026 due to technical reasons. 
3 MAVIR - In order to meet the legal requirements, MAVIR not only has to procure and implement major IT system 
and business process upgrades but also has to introduce completely new ones as well - including but not limited to 
its market operation and planning system and settlement system - which takes more time than originally estimated. 
Additionally, MAVIR needs to provide sufficient time for local BSPs to prepare and implement the necessary 
changes on their side. The Hungarian NRA requests an updated status from MAVIR every half year. 
4 SVK - have focused on establishing the Nordic mFRR platform (go-live 4 March 2025) before connecting to the 
European platforms, which, along with challenges in IT development, mean that the planned accession to PICASSO 
is delayed. An updated Nordic roadmap will be published shortly on https://nordicbalancingmodel.net/roadmap-and-
projects. 
6 Statnett - Exact accession date will be coordinated together with the nordic TSO's at a later date 
7 Swissgrid - The technical readiness of Swissgrid has been acknowledged. The participation of Switzerland in the 
aFRR-Platform is regulated based on article 1.6 and 1.7 of the EB Regulation and currently the subject of litigation 
by Swissgrid at the Court of Justice of the European Union.  
 
 
 
 
