=== PDF PAGE 1 ===
The Gas and Electricity Market Operator “OPCOM” S.A. 
Summary/Procedure regarding the tariffs applied by the Nominated Electricity Market Operator (NEMO) for the services provided to participants in the Short-Term Electricity Markets 
(Day-Ahead Market and Intraday Market – Continuous Trading (IDCT) and Auction Trading (IDA)) in 2026. Invoicing and payment deadlines of the tariffs applied by NEMO. 
1 
 
Name of 
Tariffs applied 
by NEMO 
 
U/M 
 
Tariffs applied, rules of application 
  
Tariff value 
 
Invoice 
type 
 
Invoicing of the NEMO tariff 
 
Payment term 
 
Other information 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Administration 
tariff 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
lei/ 
participant/ 
year 
 
 
NEMO applies to each participant of the organized and 
administrated markets a single tariff of administration, 
regardless of the number of markets in which they 
participate. 
 
The administration tariff is calculated using the formula: 
Tadmin = Vadmin /Nr. participants [lei/participant/year] 
 
where: 
Vadmin = Administration revenue estimated to be 
achieved during the tariff period t 
No. of participants = The number of participants 
considered in setting the administration tariff for tariff 
period t, which is the number of participants estimated 
in December of each year, at the date of submission of 
the tariff proposal for approval by the Board of 
Administration 
 
 
The administration tariff is set separately for two 
categories of participants: A and B. For participants 
classified in category A, the administration tariff applied 
represents 60% of the tariff  applicable to participants in 
category B. 
 
 
1. Annual classification of participants into category 
A or category B as of 01.12.(t-1), for the purpose of 
setting tariffs for the following year (t): 
-Categories A and B are determined based on the total 
quantity of electricity traded, cumulated for both sale and 
purchase, by the participant in the Day-Ahead Market (DAM) 
and/or Intraday Market (IDCT and/or IDA), during the period 
from December 1 of tariff period t-2 until November 30 of 
tariff period t-1. 
-Classification into category A or B of a participant 
registered in DAM and/or Intraday Market during the period 
December 1 (t-2) – November 30 (t-1) is based on the 
average monthly quantity of electricity traded, cumulated 
for both sale and purchase, on the markets in which the 
participant is active, as follows: 
    
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
- category A: 
26.268 lei/ 
participant/ 
year 
- category B: 
43.776 lei/ 
paticipant/year 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Electronic 
invoice 
 
1.  The invoice related to the 
administration activity for tariff 
period t is issued: 
-  annually; 
-  upon the registration of the 
participant in DAM and/or IDM; 
-  on the occasion of 
reconsidering the classification 
from category A to category B 
 
2.  The invoice related to the 
administration activity for tariff 
period t (to which VAT is added, 
where applicable) for each 
participant registered in DAM 
and/or IDM (IDCT and/or IDA) is 
issued by NEMO within a 
maximum of 5 working days from 
the date of approval by the Board 
of Directors of the tariffs applied 
by NEMO, and is  electronically 
transmitted to SPV-ANAF within 5 
working days from the date of  
invoice issuing . 
 
3. For participants who register in 
DAM and/or IDM (IDCT and/or 
IDA) during tariff period t, the 
invoice (to which VAT is added, 
where applicable) is issued within 
a maximum of 5 working days 
from the date of registration in the 
 
Payment of the 
invoice shall be 
made by the 
participant via 
bank transfer, by 
payment order, 
within 5 working 
days from the 
date of issuance. 
 
The invoice shall 
be considered 
paid on the date 
the payment is 
recorded in the 
bank statement of 
OPCOM SA. 
 
The situation of withdrawal / revocation 
of the participant from DAM and / or 
IDM: 
- NEMO issue the storno  invoice related 
to the administration tariff in proportion 
to the period between the 1st of the 
month following the date of entry into 
force of the withdrawal/revocation and 
the end of the year. 
 
The value related to storno invoice, in 
case that this was  paid, will be returned 
within maximum 5 (five) working days 
from the date of transmission of the 
storno invoice in SPV-ANAF. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

=== PDF PAGE 2 ===
The Gas and Electricity Market Operator “OPCOM” S.A. 
Summary/Procedure regarding the tariffs applied by the Nominated Electricity Market Operator (NEMO) for the services provided to participants in the Short-Term Electricity Markets 
(Day-Ahead Market and Intraday Market – Continuous Trading (IDCT) and Auction Trading (IDA)) in 2026. Invoicing and payment deadlines of the tariffs applied by NEMO. 
2 
 
Name of 
Tariffs applied 
by NEMO 
 
U/M 
 
Tariffs applied, rules of application 
  
Tariff value 
 
Invoice 
type 
 
Invoicing of the NEMO tariff 
 
Payment term 
 
Other information 
a) Category A: if the average monthly traded quantity is less 
than or equal to 833 MWh; 
b) Category B: if the average monthly traded quantity is 
greater than 833 MWh. 
 
2. Classification and reclassification of participants from 
category A to category B during tariff period t – general 
rules: 
 
-Participants registered during tariff period t in at least 
one market organized and administered by NEMO are 
classified in category A and pay the administration tariff 
corresponding to category A. 
 
-For participants who register in DAM and/or Intraday Market 
(IDCT and/or IDA) during tariff period t, the administration 
tariff is weighted according to the duration (in months) 
for which the participant is registered in the markets 
organized and administered by NEMO within the 
respective tariff period. 
 
- The quantity of electricity traded by participants 
registered during tariff period t is evaluated monthly by 
NEMO, in order to reconsider classification into category B, 
if applicable, based on the average monthly traded quantity 
cumulated for both sale and purchase. 
 
- Classification into category B is applied starting with the 
month following the one in which the condition from point 
1(b) was met. 
 
- A participant whose category was reconsidered during the 
year, from category A to category B, remains classified in 
category B throughout the entire tariff period t. 
market and is transmitted 
electronically to SPV-ANAF within 
5 working days from the date of 
issuing the invoice. 
 
 

=== PDF PAGE 3 ===
The Gas and Electricity Market Operator “OPCOM” S.A. 
Summary/Procedure regarding the tariffs applied by the Nominated Electricity Market Operator (NEMO) for the services provided to participants in the Short-Term Electricity Markets 
(Day-Ahead Market and Intraday Market – Continuous Trading (IDCT) and Auction Trading (IDA)) in 2026. Invoicing and payment deadlines of the tariffs applied by NEMO. 
3 
 
Name of 
Tariffs applied 
by NEMO 
 
U/M 
 
Tariffs applied, rules of application 
  
Tariff value 
 
Invoice 
type 
 
Invoicing of the NEMO tariff 
 
Payment term 
 
Other information 
-The category of participants who were also active in the 
previous year is evaluated monthly during tariff period t 
based on: 
- the average monthly quantity of electricity traded in the 
last 12 months; 
- the average monthly quantity of electricity traded during 
the period in which they held participant status (for 
participants registered in the previous year, calculated 
for a maximum of 12 months) 
cumulated for both sale and purchase, on the markets in 
which they participate. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Trading tariff  
 
 
 
 
 
 
Lei/Mwh 
 
 
 
 
The trading tariff  is calculated using the formula: 
   Ttranz = Vtranz/(2 x Qtranz)    [lei/MWh] 
    unde: 
where: 
-Vtranz = Trading revenue estimated to be achieved 
during tariff period t 
-Qtranz = Estimated quantity of electricity to be traded, 
reduced by the estimated electricity quantities related 
to the default participant 
 
The trading tariff applies both to sale transactions and to 
purchase transactions carried out by participants in the 
Day-Ahead Market (DAM/PZU) and/or Intraday Market (IDCT 
and/or IDA), with delivery in the tariff month. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
0,125 lei/MWh 
traded. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Electronic 
invoice 
 
For transactions carried out by 
participants on the DAM and/or 
IDM markets (IDCT and/or IDA) for 
delivery during the month, the 
electronic invoice (to which VAT is 
added, where applicable) is 
transmitted electronically to 
SPV-ANAF within the first 5 
working days from the date of 
issuing the invoice, in the month 
following the delivery month for 
which the electricity sale and 
purchase transactions were 
carried out. 
 
The trading tariff is applied, 
invoiced, and paid separately for 
each of the trading mechanisms 
made available to participants by 
 
The invoice shall 
be paid by the 
participants 
within 5 working 
days from the 
date of receipt of 
the invoice in 
SPV-ANAF. 
The invoice shall 
be deemed paid 
on the date the 
payment is 
recorded in the 
bank statement of 
OPCOM SA. 
 
 
 

=== PDF PAGE 4 ===
The Gas and Electricity Market Operator “OPCOM” S.A. 
Summary/Procedure regarding the tariffs applied by the Nominated Electricity Market Operator (NEMO) for the services provided to participants in the Short-Term Electricity Markets 
(Day-Ahead Market and Intraday Market – Continuous Trading (IDCT) and Auction Trading (IDA)) in 2026. Invoicing and payment deadlines of the tariffs applied by NEMO. 
4 
 
 
 
 
Name of 
Tariffs applied 
by NEMO 
 
U/M 
 
Tariffs applied, rules of application 
  
Tariff value 
 
Invoice 
type 
 
Invoicing of the NEMO tariff 
 
Payment term 
 
Other information 
OPCOM, namely: DAM; IDM IDCT; 
IDM IDA. 
 
General provisions:  
1.  The tariffs applied by NEMO are: 
     a)  administration tariff, Tadmin [lei/participant/year]; and 
     b)  trading tariff, Ttranz [lei/MWh]. 
2.  The tariffs applied by NEMO for tariff period t shall be established and approved by the Board of Directors during December of tariff period t-1 or during tariff period t, as applicable. 
3.  OPCOM shall publish on its own website the tariffs applicable in the following year or those modified during the application period, at least 15 days prior to their application (before the date of entry into force of the new 
tariffs). 
4.  Modification of tariffs during tariff period t: 
4.1. OPCOM may modify the value of the tariffs applied within tariff period t, in accordance with the approval decision of the Board of Directors. The established tariffs shall be published at least 15 days prior to their 
application (before the date of entry into force of the new tariffs). 
4.2. OPCOM shall apply the modification of the tariffs starting from the first day of the month following the month in which the modification occurred. In this case, OPCOM shall issue adjustment invoices for the 
administration tariff corresponding to tariff period t, reflecting the modification. The difference resulting from the adjustment shall be settled within a maximum of 5 (five) working days from the date of receipt of the 
invoice, as follows: 
-  if the adjustment results in a positive amount, it shall be paid by the participant; 
-  if the adjustment results in a negative amount, it shall be paid by OPCOM. 
5.  Invoices shall be issued and transmitted in electronic format, in accordance with the applicable legal provisions. The authenticity of origin, integrity of content, and readability of invoices issued in electronic format shall 
be guaranteed by OPCOM S.A. through electronic signature and the assignment of a specific internal series and number, in accordance with the law. 
6.  Suspension, withdrawal, or revocation of a participant from the organized forward electricity markets shall not exempt the parties from fulfilling the obligations undertaken up to that date. 
 
Legal Basis: 
-  ANRE Order no. 100/14.11.2023; 
-  Decision of the Board of Directors of OPCOM S.A. no. 79/12.12.2025; 
-  Law no. 227/2015 on the Fiscal Code, with subsequent modifications and completions; 
-  Government Emergency Ordinance (GEO) no. 120/2021 on the administration, operation, and implementation of the national system regarding the electronic invoice RO e-Factura  and electronic invoicing in Romania,  with 
subsequent modifications and completions. 